# OmicsO_Omics_data_Ontology_MLM_LMG

Data omics, encompassing fields such as genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and transcriptomics, plays a pivotal role in the current understanding of biological systems. These disciplines enable comprehensive and systematic analysis of various molecular components within cells, organisms, or ecosystems. By deciphering the intricate interplay of genes, proteins, metabolites, and other molecules, data omics provide valuable insights into fundamental biological processes, disease mechanisms, and even environmental dynamics.\newline

Currently, the field of omics research is witnessing a surge in scholarly papers, resulting in a proliferation of available omics datasets. However, there are only a few semantic web frameworks whose domain concerns the omics field. In the field of omics data, a semantic ontology can be a powerful tool for organizing, annotating, and comparing different experimental assays in the field of omics: the experimental conditions of the study, the obtained datasets and results, the complex relationships between biological entities of study and the computational tools employed to generate the final processed data. This ontology would help researches to navigate among already published -omics papers in order to obtain processed dataset that best fits their requirements or make a quick revision of published papers and obtained expression conclusions for an specific target.\newline

In this context, the topic of the ontology to develop is datasets and intricate biological entities relationships arising from omics studies, specifically in proteomics or transcriptomics expression studies. The general goal of “OMICS Data Ontology” is to facilitate omics data query, annotation and comparison among different published research articles: the technologies employed, the type of assay, the experimental conditions, the target molecule and the findings about its expression, among others. This approach aims to enhance interoperability, data integration, and knowledge sharing within the domain of Omics research. 
